---

---
Albany Thursday 30th July 12

“I thank you my dearest love for your affectionate Letter of Monday last, and cannot consent to your being disappointed in its main Object, although I write so many letters herforce[?] and am so much occupied with them, and with a variety of other matters, that I am obliged almost to desert my private Correspondences. Though much harrassed, I enjoy good health and grow fat from it. a pretty good proof that it agrees with me. 

I hope our dear daughter’s attack is not the commencement of a furious intermittent and that it will be speedily removed. If I have the oppotunity I will find some Bark. If not I must bring it, and hope it may not be delaied[sic] beyond Monday Evening, tho I cannot speak with certainty. I shall go on the next boat to NYork.

Nothing in the shape of a cook is here to be met with. Mrs. Ludlow says they send to New York, for all the cooks they employ here.

I have just returned from hearing M. Blows[?] preach a sermon on the War, which for elegance of Composition has seldom been surpassed, for piety and patriotism never. He made his [?] Brethren stare and wince. His text was from Job. “Be afraid of the sword + [?].” He considered hear[sic] as the source of Heaven for a Nations Sins. That its infliction on Britain was equally so, as on us. That as Heaven willed it it could not be considered unjust. That it was often the only means of protecting national rights and se????ing fair and lasting peace. That when every effort to avoid it by negotiation had failed, an appeal to arms for ??dress of national earrngs[?] became a duty. That such a war rendered the characters of the Soldier honorable, and that the constituted Authorities having decided on it, it became the duty of every man, be his Sentiments of his politicks what they mays, to give it a vigorous and manly support; and that those who would not defend the Country which gave them birth, or which nurtured them in her bosom, be her Energies whom they may, could neither expect to be accepted of God or of Man. 

My pleasure , you may suppose, was heightened, by unexpectedly hearing such sentiments from such a Quarter. I was never more gratified, and could really have pressed him to my bosom. 

I suspect our little Man at Hyde Park has been an euntraine[?]. 

God bless you. My love to all, ML

Maur[?] the kitchen Chimney burnt the first rain. I fear for our henisess[?]. we have not been a day without rain since I have been here, and the showers most violent.