Sacketts Harbor 23. July 1813

My dear Love,

I ahve rec.d your kind Letter of the 16th and rejoice to hear you are all well and happy. It is true this place is sickly; owing in a great measure to its extreme filthiness and the uncmmon wetness and coldness of the Season- I have at no time found flannel uncomfortable. I think we have a prospect of the health of the Camp improving- the Season has become more dry, and we have cleansed the augean Stables.

The Questions you say are put to you (not I suspect by military Men) you may answer thus. To the first “Why we did not pursue the Enemy that day we landed”- the answer is Obvious- It was impossible. The Enemy previous to his retreating, sent off his whole Train of field Artillery. The works on Queenston Heights were still in his possession and not to be assailed without Artillery, which we could not employ all our Artillery ?orces being the other side the River, and no means of crossing them. Our men throughout the Action had drawn the prices[?] by hand, and were so fatigued, that when a man got on the ground, it was impossible to get him up again. The Army had been on electy[?] since one in the morning, without halting or eating, and our provisions, like our Horses, were on the opposite side of the River. To have pursued an Enemy, through a wasted Country, without provisions, without Ammunition and without Horses and with an already famished Army would have been madness, would have been criminal in the highest degree, and probably would have thrown half of it into the [illegible]. As it was, many fiehened[?] from fatigue and exposure_____

The 2nd question, “why we did not continue the pursuit the 2.d day” is one which Gen. Dearborn must answer, I cannot. He ordered me to return when my 

I receive the Albany Papers now pretty regularly. I have rec.d my [illegible] and Table Cloths. Now come on the Merinos Factory. 

God bless you dear Give my love to our Children and ask Margaret if she rec.d my Letters respecting her proposed plan of the North being[?]—

Your aff. Husband

ML