---

---

French Mills 14th Nov: 1813

At this place, which is situated at the North Boundary of our state, and about six Miles from the St. Lawrence River, terminates, my dearest friend and affectionate wife our northern Campaign for this year. The causes will doubtless be given the public in due time. An important one is that Gen.l Hampton declined inviting his forces to ours though ordered so to do by Genl. Wilkinson and the  Secretary at War. The prefered returning to Lake Champlain and thus deprived us of a large portion of our force. We found the Enemy much stronger than we expected. We had with him a few partial affairs previous to the 9th. On that day Brown was sent forward to attack a force which lay about 20 Miles in our front; consisting of 600 Men. On the 10th he beat them, burnt the Block house and captured Gov.d to Amo.t[meaning Amount] as is said, of, 30,000. On that Evening the Enemy made a shew in our rear and reitred whenever we advanced upon him. On the 11th he commenced on us a brisk Cannonade which he kept up at Intervals from three field pieces and a number of Gun Boats, concealed behind a point. As he did us no Injury we supposed he merely intended to retard our movements and we paid no Attention to him. At three, Orders were given for our Embarkation in 20 Minutes, Wilkinson and my self were both sick in bed in our respective Boats, unable to move. Before the 20 Minutes we were surprised by a smart firing of Musquetry. Boyd instead of embarking had just cut Swartwout’s Brigade to give them Battle. Covington marched to support Swartwout and Boyd to support the whole. A general Action took place, the Enemy being as is said and believed 2500 strong. While our Troops maintained this Order, they three times charged and drove the Enemy from their position behind fences. The impetuosity of Boyd, it is said, (but you must not say it) threw our Line into disorder, broke their ranks, and the Enemy drove us in turn. Covington’s Ammunition was exhausted, and our Artillery just arrived in the field, as our Troops gave way. We retired to our first position and found the Enemy did not choose to try us again, though his force was at least equal if not superior to ours, as we had sent off many detachments. Our Loss is heavy; we have not as yet the whole of the returns but I think it will not fall far short of 400. General Covington and several other Officers fell glorious by. He was a very gallant Soldier__

I have never in my life suffered as much as I have done on this expedition. When on shore, lying under Canvass[sic] in cold and boisterous weather equal to January on the Hudson_ When on board, confined to a hole three feet high, with a Constant Dissentary[sic] which set blackberry Jelly and  every other remedy at defiance. I several times thought I should bid adieu to you all without the aid of the Enemy. I am now, thank God on shore, and in a house, though not a comfortable one.  I am far from well, though mending and in hopes of being reestablished shortly by the Aid of a milk + vegetable diet. Wilkinsons prospects I think are not as good, he is completely broke down. I hope Armstrong will order me to Washington to settle my Accounts which will give me an Opportunity of once more embracing you all. Till then + forever God preserve you all prays

your aff. Husband

MLewis.