---

---

Grenadier Island 2.d Nov: 1813.

My dearest + best beloved

I snatch a hasty moment to acknowledge to you all the receipt of the following Letters. Margaret’s of the 10th Ult.[?] with a postscript by Maturin- yours of the 20th and 24th the latter with a postscript by Margaret- Margaret’s of the same date with a postscript by Maturin. These were all handed to me this day.

After many delays and losses by incessant Storms, we have at length succeeded in getting the whole of our Army, except the rear guard, safely into the 1st[?] Lawrence. Wilkinson and myself with rear guard join them tomorrow weather permitting. He is very feeble, but will go with us. Our Army is still a fine one, though it has had to encounter innumerable hardships and privations; and when untied to Hamsstort[?], will be sufficient in my Opinion to plant our Standards even on the walls of Quebec were the Season not too far advanced. 

Our Enemy is still distracted as to our object. We shall remove this[sic] doubsts in a few days. The prospect before us in an animating one, and with the divine blessing we have an almost certainty of success. Consternation pervades the Enemy’s ranks- He finds he has to contend with a fae, his Superior in bravery, his equal in almost every other requisite of ar?owier[?]. I should not be surprised, should after a feeble resistance, retire to Quebec. In this militia he has lost confidence, and all those who were employed at Prescot have been discharged. I hope soon to write you from Montreal. Keep up your spirits; hope for the best; heaven will not suffer a righteous cause to be defeated. Remember also that lowness of spirits will strengthen the disorder with which you are attacked; and look forward to the happy period when you may hope to bring to my Arms a Wife healthy and happy. I do not believe we have much to apprehend beyond a few hard ships.

May the choicest blessings of Heaven eer rest on you and our beloved household prays 

your faithful + aff. Husband

ML.