Sackett’s Harbor 24th July 1813

My dear love

Your last letter of the 18th came to me Safely and expeditiously; as probably will all those you may hereafter write, as I have established a daily express mail between this + Utica which goes through in ten hours. 

I have been a little indisposed, from the predisposition you know my bowels have to the species of complaint which has been very prevalent here; but which is now becoming milder among the Troops. It has never confined me, and I am at present perfectly well. From the attention I have paid to the cleanliness of the Camp, I am in hopes we shall not have many more new cases of that dreadful Scourge of new Armies. 

Robert + John Tillerson[?] went in the Lady of the Lake, to Niagara. John was taken ill of a fever the Second day after leaving this; and returned quite Sick- we have nursed him carefully and had two excellent Physicians attend him- His fever has left him, and he is regaining his appetite, and I have no doubt, in a few days, will be as well as ever. Robert is well and up to his ears in business~

When my shirts are finished, I wish you to lay them by ‘till I send for them. I can make those I have answer my present purposes, and find it inconvenient to be encumbered with too much baggage. 

Dearborn is very angry with me for my letter to Armstrong- because I spoke of his Indisposition, and Chandler’s bad position of his Camp. I have assured him I intended him no Injury, + that I only spoke of that everybody knew; and that as to his friend, I gave an Opinion I was prepared to defend. I find he is not to be appeased, and so I shall leave him to his reflections. 

I wish I could hear from Maturin Something about the factory and our flocks. Also the State of my Account with the mechanic Bank + whether the Mc.Kims of Baltimore had remitted the Amount Sales of the rest of our Cloths. 

My love to him, our Daughter, and all the dear little ones.

Our fleet went to Sea the 22d. Robert met them off Aswego.

Your aff. Husband

ML