Sacketts Harbor 16th Octo. 1813

My dear Child,

I was yesterday made happy by the receipt of your Letter of the 6th Ins. The Account you give of Julia is melancholy and interesting; and the shock her disposition must give her father will be a severe one. So fair a flower cut down in the prime of life, is a subject not to be contemplated but with feelings of anguish. All we can say is heaven knows what is for the best, and only acts for the wisest purposes. We must bow submissive to its will. 

We should have been off long since from this place had not the fates been adverse. We have been delayed near a Month beyond our calculation by unforseen events. Genl. Wilkinson who went to Fort George to bring the Troops from thence was long confined there by severe indisposition, which has again assailed him at this place. The Troops left Fort George the 28th of last month, and have been encountered by such dreadful Tempests that the whole have not yet arrived. Our embarkation from this day (on which I enter my 60th year) and by tomorrow Evening we shall all be afloat. The fleet has gone out to clear the way for us. Our Objects were first Kingston, next Montreal. The first I fear we shall be obliged to relinquish on Account of the advanced state of the season, for we have have[added an extra time] already had upwards of two feet of Snow in our neighbourhood. The last I think will be an easy conquest. Though our final decision will be made when we reach our place of rendesvous[sic], which is Grenadier Island near the head of the 1st Lawrence. The Enemy has broke up from Fort George and about 1200 of his Troops have arrived at Kingston which will oblige us, if we attempt that place, to make regular approaches, for which I think we have not time;and to attempt it now by assault, would cost more than it is worth. 

Gos bless and preserve you and yours. Remember me most affectionately to your mother, and should Providence in its dispensations decree us to meet no more in this Life, I have the firmest confidence that yours will be devoted to rendering the remnant of her days as tranquil as every affectionate attention on your part can make it. My Will which is in the Iron Chest may be destroyed. I have placed one in the hands of Chief Justice Kent, with the dispositions it makes of my Estate I hope you will all be satisfied. 

Once more I pray God preserve you, your husband Mother + Children

your aff.c father

MLewis [with a fancy swirl underneath]