ANew York 18th June 1814

My dear Gitty,

I have sent by Rob. Livingston’s Sloop, which goes to Delantillon’s[?] Landing, two Barrels of Pork and one of fine mess Beef which you will desire Maturin to send for and distribute between our family and the factory. I have also sent two empty new Barrels to be filled, the one with madeira from the pipe on tap in the Cellar, the other with Greek Wine for our City establishment, which will commence as soon as your Ladyship will honor me with your Company. I have engaged a Cook, a neat looking Irish Girl highly reccomended; brought up in the family of General Gray. I have also partly engaged Mrs. Kennedy who is a very decent and respectable Swiss Catholic who has seen better days. She has a written recommendation from Mrs Armstrong, but cannot do hard work; is a good seamstress and I think will make a good housekeeper, though perhaps it might be well to send to Mrs Armstrong to learn something more of her. She has had charge of the house ever since it was built. In addition to these, you will want a woman to wash, Iron, and scrub and an additional Waiter. Belinda and Mary will answer if they can be spared from home. The house I have ordered to be cleaned. The first floor is occupied as Offices. The second consists of a dining + drawing room completely furnished, and a Bedroom without furniture. The third story is unfurnished Bedrooms. Dearborns Kitchen furniture is in the house and at my service at 25p [squiggle I don’t understand] below the first Cost. You may have it or not. There are also Tubs and Pails of which you will recollect we have many still at Landon’s Farm. 

You must send down Bed and Beddings + Bedsheads[sic] if you have them them to spare. I should like the Provost Matrass[sic]. We should also be in a situation occasionally to lodge a friend. By way of aiding you, I will give the following Memorandum of what we shall want from home in addition to the above.

Table Cloths. Knives + Forks, Salts, Salvers[?], Spoons, Ladles. Bread Basket. Cartons. SIlver Pitcher, or both, is Marg. can spare hers. Little silver Coffee Pot + Mug and whatever else you can think of. Bring from your Cloaths[sic] Press 2 brass locks and Keys_ + from my Bureau, my Cincinnati medal and the breakfast Knives + forks which are in a leather Bag, in one of the Pidgeon Holes. 

You had better send Tobias by Land with your Carriage + come yourself in the steamboat. If the Leaders can travel he may as well bring them also here for sale, unless Maturin wishes to use them. By the way, some arrangemnt must be made to furnish them with a Carriage + horses_ Perhaps the farm Horses may answer till I can match the gray.

I called at Bansel’s to endeavor to get a place at his School for Mortimer. He is full and has 20 Applicants on his List. If Margaret would part with Julia, she would be a companion for you, and perhaps it might an advantage to her. Make with our dear Daughter whatever dispositions + arrangments you mututally think best for the satisfaction + happiness of all + each, and I shall be pleased. But come to me yourself as soon as possible for I am already tired of preparation. 

God bless you all

your Aff. 

ML. 

Send down my Sulkey + Harness. Cushion + 10c.a

Send a Cow. I should prefer Sharr[?] for a particular reason. Tillotson has comb peate and sand Paper for Maturin.