---

---
Troy 13th feby: 1815

My dearest friend,

How has it happened that near a week has elapsed since the wait since the receipt of the news of that change in our foreign relations, which will once more restore me to the bosom of my family, without my receiving A-line from you on the event? Is it that you doubt it's effect on our internal affairs? To mark I confess for myself I have some doubts on this subject; Much will depend on the use we make of it.. Had it not been for our divisions I should have had no objection to the Continuance of war until we had humbled the pride of our haughty antagonist dantagonist - which I think we should have been able to have done; having already convinced the nation's of Europe that England is invincible neither by sea nor land. The dissatisfaction of the British ministerial Prince with the terms of the treaty is a favorable symptom symptom that we shall not find fault with them. I fancy they will change their tone, when they hear of the complete discomfiture of their best troops at New Orleans. It was a glorious finale to the war, and will exult the administration - the effects on our manufacturers I apprehend I apprehend will be foet[?] sensibly_

You hint at an invitation to you to come and see me - nothing would give me greater pleasure was my situation such as to accommodate you.. But the only passage to my bedroom is through 2 others occupied by gentlemen.

I have burie[?] met Henry Armstrong in Albany, and the Cul  Would scarcely dain me a nod and return to my salutation. What is the cause question MA? Surely his father could not expect I would testify falsely to gratify his resentments. As to all matters of fact my testimony has been corroborated by every witness On the part of the prosecution not one of whom has answered the expectations of the prosecutor. We are getting along rapidly with the trial, and I believe Wilkinson will enter on his defense on Monday next.

I was on Tuesday last at a grand entertainment aint at fudge masters masters, about 14 miles from hence, given to the officers of the army. It consisted of 60 gentlemen and 40 ladies; who dined with him;  And were entertained with a ball in the evening. All en handsome style - a great part of the company stayed to break to breakfast the next morning. I have seldom been at such a pleasant party the women were mostly very handsome, and danced as well as the ladies of any of our Cities. I could scarcely believe my eyes.

Remember me affectionately to our children + accept the love of

your ever affectionate husband

ML.